Python Copyright

Historical note: This page describes the Python license used for
Python versions up to and including Python 1.6a2. CNRI released Python
1.6b1 and the final Python 1.6 release under a different license,
which is open source compliant, but not compatible with the GPL (the
only incompatibility being the inclusion of a choice-of-law
clause). More recent PSF releases, in particular 2.0.1, 2.1.1, and all
releases since then, are GPL-compatible.  Most Python sources and
binaries are distributed under the following copyright. A few files
have a different copyright owner, but otherwise the notice is similar.


  *"final Python 1.6" above links to:
  http://web.archive.org/web/20070208215509/http://www.python.org/download/releases/1.6/

  *"PSF" above links to:
  http://web.archive.org/web/20070202204117/http://www.python.org/psf/
  
  *"2.0.1, 2.1.1, and all releases since then" links to:
  http://web.archive.org/web/20070202023003/http://www.python.org/download/


The gist of it is that Python is absolutely free, even for commercial
use (including resale). There is no GNU-like "copyleft" restriction.

A clarification: some very picky lawyers are worried that the notice
doesn't explicitly grant permission to distribute modified copies
(even though it grants permission to copy, modify, and
distribute). This can be considered an oversight in the notice; we
have no intention to limit distribution of modified copies (that
otherwise play by the rules). Similarly, the words "without fee" are
to be read connected to "permission": permission is granted without
fee. We are in the process of revising the notice to clarify it, but
this is a slow process.

Another clarification: the limitation of the copyright to 1991-1995 in
the notice is not a mistake, but rather a deliberate
decision. Copyright applies regardless of whether it is explicitly
stated or not.

News: The Open Source Initiative board has voted to certify the Python
license as Open Source.

  *"Open Source Initiative" above links to: 
  http://web.archive.org/web/20061128020422/http://www.opensource.org/

And if you had to ask, yes, this license is compatible with the GPL (sez RMS).

  *"GPL" above links to:
  http://web.archive.org/web/20070202181626/http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/gpl.html
  
  *"RMS" above links to:
  http://web.archive.org/web/20070202204117/http://www.stallman.org/

Copyright 1991-1995 by Stichting Mathematisch Centrum, Amsterdam, The
Netherlands.

All Rights Reserved Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute
this software and its documentation for any purpose and without fee is
hereby granted, provided that the above copyright notice appear in all
copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice
appear in supporting documentation, and that the names of Stichting
Mathematisch Centrum or CWI or Corporation for National Research
Initiatives or CNRI not be used in advertising or publicity pertaining
to distribution of the software without specific, written prior
permission.

While CWI is the initial source for this software, a modified version
is made available by the Corporation for National Research Initiatives
(CNRI) at the Internet address http://www.python.org.

STICHTING MATHEMATISCH CENTRUM AND CNRI DISCLAIM ALL WARRANTIES WITH
REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE, INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS, IN NO EVENT SHALL STICHTING MATHEMATISCH
CENTRUM OR CNRI BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR
PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER
TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR
PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE. 